All right, good morning.
Today, we want to spend some time talking
about some advanced things that you
can do with UI Gesture Recognizer.
And to really get into it and have a
good idea of how we got to where we
are today from what gesture recognition
was before UI Gesture Recognizer,
we want to do a little bit of backstory
and just give you a brief overview of
the history of the gesture recognizer
system and sort of how it came to be
from more of a technical standpoint,
the issues that were involved
in coming up with it.
And then from there,
once you kind of understand what the
gesture recognizer system is about,
we want to talk a little more about
gesture interaction because this
is one of the biggest points and
the biggest reasons for the gesture
recognizer system to exist at all
is to manage the interaction between
multiple different gesture recognizers.
And then after we've gone over that,
Andy's going to spend some time
talking about subclassing fundamentals.
Once you understand really what the
gesture recognizer system is and how
gestures interact with one another,
hopefully you'll have a really good idea
of what the gesture recognizer system is.
And then after we've gone over that,
Andy's going to spend some time
talking about subclassing fundamentals.
So, I think it's a really good idea
of why you also want to be writing
your own UI Gesture Recognizers
when you're thinking about
building your own custom gestures.
And a big part of that is
going to be talking about the
fundamentals for what you should
be doing while subclassing things.
Now, most of the focus of that
section is going to be about some
interesting things that you should
be thinking about and keeping
in mind while you are subclassing,
rather than some of the basic
mechanics of which method to override.
So, if you're already familiar
with how subclassing works,
there's... There's still some
even more interesting stuff that
we'll be talking about there.
And then finally,
we're going to end by talking
about some pretty advanced signal
processing techniques that you
might want to use when building
your own gesture recognizers.
Some things that we've found
that we've used in our own
gestures in certain places,
and stuff that hopefully when
you're going to write your own,
you'll find these things to be
pretty useful and interesting.
So, let's start by talking about
the gesture recognizer system.
A big part of the recognition of gestures
is thinking about state machines.
And state machines are a pretty
easy and common way to end up
thinking about how gestures work.
So, let's take a simple example of just a
collection of gestures that we might
decide that we wanted to recognize from
a basic app that you've seen on iOS,
you know, plenty of times, the Maps app.
So, Maps implements a few different
gestures and supports a
number of different things.
So, your users can put a
finger down on the screen,
and they can move it
around to pan the map.
They can put two fingers down and then
pinch to zoom in and out on that map.
that.
and then there's also a collection
of other things that interact with
those as well or that are on the side.
So you've kind of got your pan,
you've got pinching, you've got taps,
double taps, two-finger taps,
but that's kind of the
collection of them.
So if you were to stop and think about
how you might implement this set of
five gestures in an app like Maps,
and you didn't have gesture recognizers
or didn't really know about them,
you might start thinking that you have
to build a state machine to keep into
account what fingers are on the screen,
how long they've been there,
and what they've been doing,
that sort of thing.
So you might start adding some states,
maybe a start state when
nothing's happened yet,
a couple of states for tracking
when one finger's down and
when two fingers are down.
And that sort of gets you started,
but then you have to start tracking
when things have not happened.
So you have to know that a
one-finger tap is not possible
even though a finger is still down.
Or maybe two fingers are still down,
but that can't be a tap anymore.
And then maybe you have to
handle also the case where
there's more than two fingers.
And we're starting to
get pretty many states,
but we're not even done adding states
yet because now you might also have to be
tracking things like one finger was down,
but it's not a double tap,
but maybe it might still be,
or maybe it's not anymore.
I don't know.
Even more states.
So it starts to get kind of out
of hand pretty quickly with even
a fairly small number of gestures,
only five.
But we haven't even really
reached the worst part yet because
we didn't even talk about the
transitions between these states.
You have to start defining which
ones of these states you can
transition from at any given time,
which ones are valid to
transition to from another state.
And now all of a sudden,
you pretty much are screwed.
There's really nothing you can do here.
So this has gotten
incredibly complicated.
And honestly,
that's actually the kind of thing
we were dealing with with gesture
recognition in the Maps app in the early
days of iOS before gesture recognizers.
So we took a step back and thought
about what's the simplest state
machine that we could build that would
represent the recognition of gestures
without getting into that crazy
spaghetti thing that we could never
maintain over any period of time.
And so what we've got is the
gesture recognizer state machine.
And every gesture recognizer
starts in state possible.
From state possible, often,
and most commonly probably,
we'll go to state failed,
indicating that the user did not
recognize or perform whatever gesture
it was that we were looking for.
And in the simplest case,
you'll have one state
that's state recognized.
And this is for sort of
discrete gesture recognizers,
ones that they recognize at one period
of time after some certain event,
and then they're done.
So like a tap gesture recognizer
or a swipe gesture recognizer,
either it happened or it didn't,
and that's all.
So for those types of gestures,
this is really the entirety
of the state machine.
And that's way simpler than everything
we were talking about before.
There is a slight bit more
complication when you start talking
about more continuous gestures,
things that recognize over time,
like pinches, rotations, pans,
that sort of thing.
They report updates over a period of
time as the user keeps interacting.
So those we add just four more states,
began, changed, and ended,
and then a canceled state where we can,
if we've already started recognize,
we can still cancel.
But so with that,
that's all the possibilities.
So we've got a lot of possibilities in
the UI gesture recognizer state machine,
just those seven states,
so significantly fewer than
we would have ever had if we
started trying to build it before.
And a pretty small number
of transitions that we can
easily track and keep in mind.
But the really great thing
about this state machine,
and the part that makes it so much better
than what we were talking about before,
is that this state machine
represents one of those gestures.
So that's the state machine, for example,
for pan.
And you can think of
that and build that data,
and build that gesture completely
independently of all the others.
Each of those other gestures that
we're trying to recognize has its own
version of that state machine that's
independent from each other one.
And you don't have to have a
lot of crossover between them.
In fact, they're all independent.
So when you're thinking about how you'll
write your individual gesture recognizer,
you just think about that one,
and then worry about interactions
with other gestures after the fact.
So it really lets you focus on
just the one thing you're trying
to recognize at any given time,
and keeps the code much,
much simpler and cleaner.
So once you've got your
gesture written then,
which, in the case of all of these,
UIKit provides all these
gesture recognizers,
so you don't even have to think
about the implementations of these,
because they're already
being handled by UIKit.
All you end up thinking about is the
five gestures that you want to recognize,
and then defining the
relationships between them.
So for example, pinch and pan.
You really want the user to be able
to pinch and pan at the same time.
Now the default behavior with all
UI gesture recognizers is that any
UI gesture recognizer that's recognizing
will be recognizing by itself.
No two will recognize at the same time.
But that may not be what
you want in all cases,
so we could set up that pinch
and pan should be allowed
to recognize simultaneously.
[Transcript missing]
With that new behavior in place,
when the user taps in the UI button,
the button will perform its action and
the tap gesture recognizer will mod.
Now, that's probably actually
what you want in most cases.
What we've done in UIKit and iOS 6 is
actually made that the default behavior.
There are a few different controls
that have adopted behaviors like this.
I just want to go
through them real quick.
We've got UIButton, UIPageControl,
UISEgmentedControl, and UISTepper.
The primary point of all of
those controls is to look for
taps inside of themselves.
So they will always
prevent single-finger,
single taps that are attached to
a super view from recognizing if
the tap is also in this control.
This is probably what you wanted anyway,
and now you'll just get
it by default on iOS 6.
Sorry about that.
And then one other thing that's
similar to this is UI slider.
The primary point of UI slider is
to look for fingers that are down
in the slider's thumb and slide
left and right to track the slider.
If you have tried to put your sliders
in places where there are swipe gesture
recognizers or pan gesture recognizers,
you have probably found that
your sliders stop working.
You may have found this, for example,
in UI split view controller in
iOS 5 with the new swipe behavior.
In iOS 6,
UI sliders will prevent any swipes
or pans for fingers starting in
their thumbs if they're on the
same axis as the slider itself.
So that problem is now fixed.
So anyway,
hopefully that gives you a really good
idea of why you want to be playing
in the UI gesture recognizer system.
If you use the system itself
and follow its state machines,
then you'll get all these interactions
for free and you won't have to
build all that stuff yourself.
So to talk a little bit about
how you can subclass things,
Andy's going to come up
and talk a little bit here.
Thanks Josh!
Now you folks are in a talk that
begins with the word advanced,
and so I'm not going to tell
you how to subclass things,
per se.
It's more just that we've been
building a lot of gesture recognizers
over the last couple years,
and you all have too.
And in building those
gesture recognizers,
we've run into some issues.
And I know from being in the labs
and reading on certain mailing
lists that you all have as well.
And so rather than telling you which
methods to override and how the colon
works in the @interface declaration,
I'm going to talk about some of
the issues that we and you all have
run into so that I can help you
avoid them when you're implementing
future gesture recognizers.
We're going to talk about three issues,
and the first one is what should
you do when your gesture recognizes?
It seems like a really
elemental question,
and it seems like you should
have a tremendous amount of
control and liberty over this.
I mean, you can do whatever you want
when your gesture recognizes.
You can execute arbitrary code.
That's what code is.
But there are some issues
if you do just anything.
So say that you have a gesture recognizer
that's going to try to recognize
when the user draws in a circle.
So it's a discrete gesture recognizer.
And if you implement it in this fashion,
where you're just going
to tell your delegate,
hey, I found a circle.
The user drew it.
That might seem like a really
straightforward approach.
Because on Cocoa and Cocoa Touch,
we have this delegate design pattern
wherein objects tell other interested
objects when interesting things happen.
And so you might think, well,
the user drew a circle.
That's what this is for.
So that's what's interesting.
And so I'm going to tell the
interested party about this thing.
The problem with this approach is that
you don't get to take advantage of
all of the fanciness that Josh just
got finished telling you about.
So the whole point of the gesture
recognizer system is that you
get to write these self-contained
little components and then define
how they interact with each other.
In order for those
interactions to work properly,
like require gesture recognizer to fail
and should recognize simultaneously,
and just the standard
exclusion behaviors,
the system needs to understand what's
going on with your gesture recognizer.
Is it recognized?
Is it failing?
What's happening?
And so the number one responsibility
for you as a subclasser is to move your
gesture recognizer through this state
machine that Josh was talking about.
You need to tell the
system what's going on.
So that it can make the other gestures,
which maybe you don't even control,
react accordingly.
For the example we just had,
it's pretty simple.
Instead of messaging your delegate,
you just set the state of that
gesture recognizer to recognized.
And what was your delegate can
subscribe to an action resulting from
that by just adding a target action
pair where the delegate is the target.
You'll also have to import this
UI Gesture Recognizer subclass
header if you weren't already,
because set state is not
in the standard header.
It's only for subclasses.
But actually,
we aren't done yet because we told the
system when the user is drawn a circle,
but we haven't explained to the system
when exactly it is impossible that what
the user is doing presently is a circle.
In particular,
what if the user lifts all his fingers
and he hasn't drawn a circle yet?
Or what if he's drawing with
his fingers and it turns into
the system crumple gesture?
That's not a circle anymore,
and we need to tell the gesture
recognizer system about that so
that any gestures that are waiting
for the circle-recognizing gesture
to fail are allowed to proceed.
In particular,
what if the user lifts all his fingers
and he hasn't drawn a circle yet?
Or what if the gesture recognizer system
about that is not allowed to proceed?
That's not a circle anymore,
and we need to tell the gesture
recognizer system about that so
that any gestures that are waiting
for the circle-recognizer system
to fail are allowed to proceed.
For that circle recognizer,
for basically every recognizer,
you're going to be doing a lot of math
with the locations of your touches.
That's how you're going to determine,
is this the gesture that I'm looking for?
When you're doing that math,
you have to pick a coordinate
system in which you do the math.
It's essentially a reference frame.
And there's a number of different
choices you can make and a number of
different consequences that will happen
if you choose any particular one.
Let's look at this example here.
Say that you've got a scroll view,
and in each of those little squares,
there's a tap gesture recognizer.
Let's talk about how we would
implement the Tap Gesture Recognizer,
and I'm going to let you in on
a bug that we had in our initial
implementation of Tap Gesture Recognizer.
We made a mistake here,
and I'm going to try to help you
avoid making the same mistake.
Let's say that we're going to use the
views coordinate system to consider
whether the user is tapped or not.
We'll define a tap as the user's
put his finger down and then
lifted it in mostly the same place.
So if the user puts his finger down here,
remember we're considering
the location of that touch in
the view's coordinate system.
That's the teal square.
And consequently,
the location of that touch will be
considered relative to the upper
left-hand corner of that square.
So we write down that location,
and then the user scrolls
his finger up and lifts it,
but relative to the upper
left-hand corner of that square,
it hasn't moved at all.
So the system thinks, "Oh,
the user tapped."
Not quite.
That was a pan, not a tap.
So in order to solve this issue,
we need a better reference frame for
our touch than the gesture's view.
We found that in most cases,
using the screen coordinate system to
do your touch math makes the most sense.
So here, in order to accomplish that,
I've converted the incoming
touch's location to the window
of the gesture recognizer's view.
And then I've used this UI window method
to convert the point from the window to
the screen which contains the window.
So now when the user
puts his finger down,
we're considering that location
not relative to the upper left-hand
corner of the teal square,
but rather to the upper
left-hand corner of the screen.
And so when the user moves his
finger... The tap gesture recognizer
correctly sees that it didn't arrive
and lift in the same location,
and it says, "Okay,
that's not a tap." It gets it right.
So in general,
when you're doing a touch map,
it's usually best to
use screen coordinates,
not only for processing incoming touches
that are arriving and the touches began,
moved, ended methods,
but also for any touches which you're
saving as an instance variable in your
gesture recognizer to do math with later.
It's best to save those
in screen coordinates.
Shifting touch sets.
They're a tricky issue because
you might have implemented a
gesture recognizer to deal with a
single touch or maybe two touches,
but what happens if the user
changes the number of touches
while your gesture is in flight?
Let's consider a novel gesture,
not included with UIKit, called the tap,
pause, and pan gesture recognizer.
So the user puts his finger
down in this square and pauses,
pans across the screen.
What we'd like to have happen is have
the square follow the user's finger.
Maybe we're in some kind of outlining
application where this is the sane way
to move items around on the canvas.
So it's pretty easy to do this
for the single finger case.
You just move the box by the
difference between the user's present
location and his starting location.
So all is well.
But what if the user
puts two fingers down?
What does current point mean?
What does start point mean?
It doesn't really mean anything anymore.
You can't just pick one of them.
So instead, we consider this thing
called the centroid,
which is just the average of
all of the user's touches.
And now, as the user slides those two
touches across the screen,
we can consider the current centroid's
location minus the initial centroid
location and move the box by that amount.
But that issue with Accentroid
is actually not the one
I wanted to talk about today.
It's just some background.
The real issue is,
what if the user puts a finger down,
pauses a moment,
moves with that one finger to the right,
and then puts a second finger down?
Well, the current centroid is now
below the start centroid,
so that pox is going to move down.
And then if the user
lifts that second finger,
it'll jump right back up.
I don't know about you,
but when I see this
happen in applications,
I like to just sit there messing with it,
putting one finger down and
then lifting it up again,
being very, very sad.
Very, very sad.
So let's talk about how
not to make this happen.
A little bit of math.
What we'd like to have happen here is
for the translation of the box before
the user changes the number of touches
to be equal to the translation of the box
after the user puts that new finger down.
But we can't just set these two
equations to be equal to each other.
We know that that start centroid term
is going to be the same in both cases.
And we just saw the old centroid and
the new centroid are not the same.
It moved.
So there's no way to make
it work with just this.
We have to add an extra term
that here I'll call shift.
It's going to account for the change
over time in the centroid as the
user changes the touch confirmation.
So we have this extra term,
and now if we set these two
equations to be equal to each other,
we can solve for this shift term
and see that every time the user
changes the number of touches,
we're going to shift the shift
term by the difference between the
old centroid and the new centroid.
I think this will make some
more sense graphically.
The user puts one finger down.
And then when he puts
another finger down,
you'll see that arrow there.
That represents shift.
So the system's calculating the current
centroid minus the start centroid,
which would move the box
down and to the right.
But the shift balances that by
moving it back up and to the left.
And what it's doing will become
even clearer as the user slides
his finger across screen.
Really,
it makes it so that what you end up
considering is not the current centroid
of the current touch configuration,
but rather where the centroid of the
initial touch configuration would have
been had it stayed the same and moved
around the screen in the same way.
So that translation arrow is always going
to point to the tip of the shift arrow.
Even as we continue
changing the touch set,
recalculating the shift arrow,
you see that now it's balancing
the current centroid being just
that lower right touch to point
to even further away so that the
translation doesn't change at all.
We've talked about how to
make subclasses of gesture
recognizers that work properly.
Now that we've got them working.
Let's make them awesome.
Josh is going to give you some
great techniques to make your
gesture recognizers even better.
All right, thanks, Andy.
So what I want to talk about now for
a little bit is low-pass filters.
So what?
Why?
What does that mean?
So what you may find sometimes
when you're writing your gesture
recognizers is that certain values
that you're computing or things that
you're looking at over a period of
time might have some jitter in them,
things that aren't quite as smooth
as you would hope that they would be.
And one common technique for
removing jitter from a value
that you're processing over
time is a low-pass filter.
So let's take a look
at what I mean by that.
And some common things that
might use this are things
like pinch gesture recognizer,
pan gesture recognizer, rotation.
And the reason that you end up
seeing them in this case pretty often
is just because of the fact that
there are multiple fingers involved.
The presence of multiple fingers and
the fact that you would be computing
values based on the positions of
those multiple fingers can introduce,
additional jitter into some
of your computations than you
might have initially had if
you were just looking at one.
So to really understand
why that might happen,
let's take a look at how we
would calculate pinch velocity,
for example,
in a pinch gesture recognizer.
So let's say that this is an incredibly
enlarged version of a screen and that
each of those little squares is a pixel.
And let's have our user put two
fingers down somewhere on our screen.
Now, granted,
this is a little bit expanded beyond
what you'd actually have in real life.
But at some point,
that finger has to be determined
to be at a particular pixel.
The positions that are reported
to you for individual touches,
while the type of the
position is CGFloat,
well, CGPoint, which is two CG floats,
those floating point values have
only the granularity of individual
pixels for their accuracy.
So we don't actually
report locations mid-pixel.
So that means that even though here it
looks like our fingers have come down
near the edges of two different pixels,
the values that you're going to
get are going to be the same as
the values that you're going to get
when you're looking at the screen.
So that means that even though here it
looks like our fingers have come down
near the edges of two different pixels,
the values that you're going to
get are going to be the same as
the values that you're going to get
when you're looking at the screen.
are just going to represent
the whole pixel in its offset.
So if we tried to calculate how
far apart these two fingers were,
we would have to calculate the
difference between these two pixels,
because that's all the information
that we have as far as the
actual locations of the fingers.
So in this case, we've got three pixels
horizontally and seven vertically.
Now, if we go and calculate the
actual distance between those,
we would do that just using a squared
plus b squared equals c squared.
So we've got square root of the sum of
the squares of the sides of this triangle
gives us the distance between those two.
So we've got two touches.
And that's, in this case, just 7.6.
So 7.6 pixels is about our distance.
But of course,
what we were trying to measure
was that blue line there,
the solid blue line.
But what we've actually measured
is the distance between the
centers of those two pixels,
which is really bigger than the truth.
Now, as the user moves their
finger closer together,
let's say that they're going to
cross some pixel boundaries here.
And that's going to cause these
next two pixels to light up,
because those are the ones
that we now think we're in.
Now, of course,
we've moved a pretty small amount,
but yet we thought,
we've moved a whole pixel,
because that's all the accuracy
we have in our reporting.
So if we do the same thing again,
now we've still got three
pixels horizontally,
but now we've got five vertically.
So our distance that we'd calculate now
between those two is about 5.8 pixels.
Again,
now let's keep the user moving their
fingers closer and closer together.
And they've moved about the same amount,
not very much more than before.
It's roughly equivalent.
And let's say that they were
moving at a constant speed,
so the time between those two
movements was about the same.
Now let's calculate another delta.
This time we only have one
pixel difference horizontally,
but vertically we've got five.
So if we calculate that delta now,
we've got about 5.1 pixels of movement.
So the difference between our first
two samples was about 1.8 pixels.
The difference between our
second two was only about 0.7.
So it's less than half,
but we moved about the same
amount of physical distance and we
were doing it at the same speed.
So if we were calculating velocity here,
we would have calculated two pretty
wildly different velocities for
those three individual samples,
the two velocities we could have gotten,
even though physically the fingers
were moving at about the same speed.
So we kind of have a limitation here
in our ability to accurately... So if
we end up with that and we were just to
graph it over a period of time that was
longer than those three touch samples,
you might find that your velocities
look something like this for what
would otherwise seem to the user
to be continuous physical movement.
So that's kind of not what you want.
And if this physical movement somehow
became visible to the user somehow,
whatever the output of
this calculation was,
was something that was reflected back
in the user interface in some way,
say by tracking an object or something,
it might be noticeably
jittery to the user.
The fact that these are the
calculations we ended up performing.
So we could apply a low-pass
filter to this data,
which would smooth out some of these
high-frequency vibrations in the data
and make it a much more consistent value.
And that would end up looking
something a little more like that,
which is much,
much closer to a constant velocity
that the user actually thought
they were moving their finger at.
So clearly,
that would improve our situation as far
as the quality of the data that we got.
So how would we do that?
Like this.
It's really easy.
No, actually, I probably... I promise it
actually is really easy.
I just threw a bunch of math up there to,
you know, scare you a little bit.
But we're going to calculate the
velocity based on a particular time.
So here we've got an equation
for the velocity at time t.
All we have to do is pick some constant
that we're going to use as a multiplier.
And here we've called that alpha.
So alpha will be some
value between zero and one.
And that's going to represent a
weighting towards the previous velocity.
So you might pick any
value between zero and one,
depending on how much you'd want to
weight towards the previous velocity
that you had been calculating before.
And we'll multiply that
times the previous velocity,
v at t minus one.
So what we had calculated one sample ago.
So we're taking some percentage
of the previous velocity and
using that as the new velocity.
And then to that,
we're going to add the opposite
percentage of the new velocity that
we just took as the current sample.
So one minus that alpha.
So if the alpha before had been 0.75,
this one would be 0.25.
And we'd multiply that times
the current velocity sample.
So the velocity we calculated based
on the difference between our...
our most recent two touch points.
And we'd add that in to our new velocity.
So basically,
we've taken some percentage of
the old velocity and added some
percentage of the new velocity.
And now we've calculated what
we'll actually use as our value.
So if that's not entirely
clear from the math,
let's look at what it
would look like in code.
You'd probably have some constant
value to represent alpha.
So let's say we'll call it
previous velocity weight here.
And that's just going to
be a constant CG float.
Here I've picked 0.75.
So then we'll add a new method
that we're going to call... every
time we calculate a new velocity.
So every new touch move that we get,
we're going to calculate an instant...
a current velocity sample from
the current point and the previous
point and the time between them.
And then we'll pass it in to
this add velocity sample method.
And what that's going to do is just
perform this alpha calculation.
So we're going to multiply the
previous velocity weight times
whatever our instance variable was
that was tracking our velocity.
So let's say we had a... Let's
say we had an instance variable
called... current velocity.
That's what we're using to
track the velocity over time.
So that's our previous velocity.
We'll multiply that times
previous velocity weight.
And to that we'll add in the factor
of the current velocity sample.
So we're going to add to
our current velocity 1 minus
previous velocity weight.
That's the 1 minus alpha.
Times that new velocity
sample that we just took.
So it's really just two lines of code.
It's not as complicated as
it seems like it might be.
And really that's all there is to
implementing this low pass filter.
And that would give us that smoother
line that we saw on that previous sample.
previous graph.
So we talked about what it
would look like if the user did
this while moving their finger
at a really constant velocity.
But what happens if the velocity changes?
So let's say now that the
user was moving their finger,
constant velocity, well, really two,
because we're talking
about pinch velocity.
And then at some point,
they just changed their speed,
but they moved to a new, faster,
but still constant speed.
The data, the raw data,
might have looked something like this.
We had a velocity that was
pretty constant at the bottom,
but we were getting jitter.
And then they sped up, so it moved up,
but still jittery up there.
So if we used our low-pass filter
and picked that value of 0.75
that we've been talking about,
what we'd actually end up getting
would look something more like this.
So as you can see,
it's kind of now taking a little while
to catch up to the new speed that
the user's moving their finger at.
As I said, in this sample,
the user actually increased
their velocity instantly.
They just quickly started going faster.
But our sampled low-pass
filtered velocity seems to
take a while to get up there.
This is the trade-off that you get.
When you start implementing
this low-pass filter,
it's going to take a little time
for the value that you're actually
filtering to track up to the new value.
Now, the time that it takes, though,
will be based on the value
of alpha that you've chosen.
So this kind of becomes an
individual choice for you,
depending on what kind of
value you're trying to filter.
If it's something that isn't
immediately visible to the user,
what the value is,
you might be able to get away
with a larger value of alpha,
because the fact that it's catching up
a little slower may not be a good thing.
Maybe you're just using it internally
for some other calculations.
But if the user is going to really
notice directly whether or not,
you know,
if there's lag introduced by this
calculation you're performing,
then you probably want to use
a smaller value for alpha,
because that will avoid some of this.
So, for example,
if we had chosen 0.5 instead of 0.75,
we'd get this green line,
which is much closer tracking towards the
actual velocity the user was going at.
It's, you know,
higher up there than the white line.
But the downside is that we've
lost some of that green line.
So we're going to have to do
a little bit more of that.
And that's kind of the
benefit of the filter.
It gets there faster,
but it also has more of the original
jitter still in that signal.
If you had chosen a bigger
velocity of -- sorry,
a bigger value of alpha, say 0.9,
it would take even longer to
catch up and would look probably
something more like that.
So there's tradeoffs.
And really,
if you're using this in your own apps,
I would, you know,
try different values for
your particular use cases.
You may find that one feels better
than another in a particular case,
depending on what it is that
you're trying to filter.
But that's the general idea.
And hopefully gives you an idea of
what kind of things you might decide
to try if you're finding that you're
seeing some jitter in your applications.
So with that in mind,
Andy's going to come up and show us
another advanced signal processing
technique for smoothing curves.
Thanks.
So Josh just taught you about
how to smooth out data over time.
Let's talk about how to
smooth out data over space.
Say that you're implementing something
which requires showing the user a
visual representation of the path
that their fingers traced on screen.
You're writing a
handwriting recognition app.
You're writing an app for
casting magical spells,
and you need to draw some ancient rune
and show the user what they're doing.
So this section is for you.
Say that the user draws a
beautiful squiggle just like
the one I've created here.
That's lovely,
and we would love to have our
application reflect the beautiful
squiggle back at the user so
that he can see what he's doing.
There's just one problem,
which is that your application doesn't
receive the beautiful squiggle.
Your application receives six points,
because that's all the temporal
resolution that we have.
and from those six points,
it's now your job to try to reconstruct
as close an approximation as you
can of that beautiful squiggle.
Of course, there's no way to actually
do this perfectly,
but hopefully with what I show you,
you can get a little bit closer.
This is what most people tend to do,
is connect the dots.
And if I were the user and I saw this,
I would be a little upset.
This isn't what I drew.
You're making me look bad.
This isn't my magical spell at all.
It's very sad.
So with what I'm going to show you,
it'll end up looking a
little bit more like this.
No, it isn't exactly
tracking the orange line,
but that's impossible.
You don't have enough information
to exactly track the orange line.
So what we're going to do
is make some trade-offs,
and we're going to track it
less closely in some places and
more closely in other places,
and just like with the low-pass filter,
make some kind of smooth approximation.
We're going to do that with this thing
called UiPezierPath Quadratic Curves.
You can see the indication at
the top of the screen there.
Let's talk in a little more depth
about what the heck those are.
Previously,
when you had a series of touch samples
and you just connected the dots,
you drew lines between each point.
and the parameters that specified that
line were the start and end points.
That's all you need to draw a line.
But with a quadratic Bezier curve,
there's a third point.
There's this control point.
Here it's a circle.
And the line doesn't
go through the circle.
The control point does something else.
It specifies a few things about
the properties of the curve.
First, the further that the control
point is from the line connecting
the start and end points,
the sharper the curve
connecting them is going to be.
And then second, the closer the control
point is to one side,
the more the curve is going
to be skewed that way.
Now that you have an
intuitive explanation,
let's talk about code.
You can make this happen in
your application by moving a
UI Bezier path to the start point.
And then instead of
saying add line to point,
you can say add quad curve to point.
And then there's this extra
control point argument.
These Bezier paths have a lot of
really nice mathematical properties,
and those have helped me
understand them over time.
One that I really like,
that helps me get a good
grasp on what this thing is,
is that the curve which results
from the code like this,
it's the only parabola that passes
through the start and the endpoints,
but which has the tangent at the endpoint
and the tangent at the start point both
passing through the control points.
So now going back to this,
we have to figure out how to
turn those touch samples into a
series of quadratic Bezier curves,
which means essentially
figuring out start,
end, and control points,
given these six input points.
What should we use as the control points?
Well,
if we use the midpoints between each
of the touch samples that we have,
then we'll just get a straight line.
Because remember,
the further the control point is from the
line connecting the start and end points,
the more curvy the curve is.
So instead, what we're going to do
is we're going to use the actual touch
samples the system gave us as midpoints.
And sorry, as control points,
we're going to use the touch samples
the system gave us as control points.
And we're going to use the midpoints
between the touch samples the system
gave us as the start and end locations.
And that way we won't exactly
curve through the touch samples
that the system gave us,
but we'll sort of curve around them,
taking a little bit on one side
and giving it back on the other,
creating a more smooth
approximation of the user's curve.
This has been a lot of talk,
but in our industry, talk is cheap.
Let's code.
This is a spellcasting application,
and here is my magical rune.
The only problem with my magical rune
is that it's really ugly and blocky,
and it makes me look bad.
Let's try to fix this situation
up using what we've just learned.
To give you a brief tour
of the project here,
the only code that we really care
about is in this curve renderer class.
This curve renderer class
has one public method,
which renders a set of location samples
into an image of a particular size.
And all that method does
is create the image,
set some drawing parameters,
fetch a path, a UI Bezier path,
and then stroke it.
So the real part that we care
about here is this method which
generates the UI Bezier path.
And right now,
it's generating a UI Bezier
path that connects the dots,
like I was showing you in
the slides a moment ago.
And that's why my path looks so bad.
So this generates a path which
starts at the first location,
then looping through all of
the rest of the locations,
just adds a line to each one.
We're going to replace this
with an implementation which
uses quadratic Bezier curves.
Now we still want to start
with the first location,
so this line can stay.
And if there's only one location sample,
we can just have a dot,
which we get by having a line starting at
one point and ending at the same point.
So this code can stay too.
What we care about is
this else statement.
So it's actually going to
start basically the same way,
with a straight line.
This is a detail I didn't
show you in the slides,
but it's one that emerges when you
try to actually implement this thing.
I said that we were going
to use the midpoints
[Transcript missing]
The problem with that is what do
we do with the first midpoint?
I said the midpoints are going
to be the start and endpoints.
So how do we get from the first
touch sample to the first midpoint?
We don't know how curvy it should be.
The easy solution, one solution,
is to just draw a straight line.
So we're going to draw a straight
line from the first touch sample to
the first midpoint and from the last
midpoint to the last touch sample.
And then we'll curve between
everything in between.
So that's all we're doing here.
I'm using a little helper function
here called CGPointMid that just
calculates the midpoint between two
CG points by adding together each of the
components and then dividing them by two.
So I fetch the second location.
I get the midpoint between
the first and second location,
and I draw a straight line to that point.
Once I've done that,
we're going to loop over all
of the remaining locations.
But because I said we're going to
draw a straight line from the last
midpoint to the last touch sample,
we're going to leave out
the last touch sample.
So for each location
that the system gives us,
we're going to calculate
the midpoint between that
location and the next location.
And like I said,
once we've got that midpoint,
we're going to add a quadratic Bezier
path connecting the last point we were
at and that midpoint using the current
location the actual touch sample the
system gave us as the control point,
which will control how
curvy the line should be.
This is all there is for
creating the quadratic curves.
Once we've done that,
I add a straight line from the last
midpoint to the last touch sample.
If we build and run,
then we'll see much nicer curves when
I scribble furiously on the screen.
[Transcript missing]
The Event Handling Guide for iOS
contains more wonderful pieces of
knowledge and so do your heads,
so you can help each other
on the developer forums.
The link is down below.
There's one session that
may be useful to you,
and it's the session that just passed.
So maybe catch it on video.
It's just called "What's
New with Gestures?" But it's
actually about MacOSX,
which has some new gesture stuff.
And so if you're doing cross-platform
things or you're an iOS developer
who's maybe interested in the Mac,
you might check out that video to
learn about what's going on over there.
Enjoy the rest of your week at WWDC.
Thank you for coming.